
                              L A B Y R N T H 
                              ---------------
                                produced by
                             S T A R L I G H T
                               programmed by
                              DANIEL  BOSWELL

 This program is public domain, so feel free to copy it, distribute it and 
change it, but please do not attempt to sell it

 LABYRNTH

Labyrnth is a maze game incorporating the following features

   - VGA graphics (640 * 480 * 16)
   - real time
   - level editor
   - password system

The object of the game is simple, to get to the exit situated somewhere in the 
maze.
The mazes are littered with objects and obstacles, these include:

   - Colour coded doors
   - Colour coded keys
   - Planks
   - Water
   - Trapdoors
   - Switches
   - Moving blocks
   - Sledgehammers
   - Levitating spells
   - Teleports

Doors:
   There are 6 coloured doors. Red,blue,green,yellow,brown and grey.
   For every coloured door there is a clour coded key which opens any door of
   the same color as the key
Planks:
   Planks are used to make bridges over water so that the water can be 
   crossed. To create a bridge make sure you are carrying planks and just walk
   on to the water and the bridge will be created underneath. Planks can only
   be used once each, so don't waste them.
Water:
   Water is deadly, so make sure you are carrying planks when you walk onto it
Trapdoors:
   Trapdoors can exist in 2 states, opened and closed. If a trapdoor is closed
   you can just walk over it. If you are feeling suicidal however then you
   could walk onto an open trapdoor and plunge to your doom, lemmings style
Switches:
   Switches govern the state of every trapdoor in the maze. When you walk onto
   a switch every Trapdoor in the maze will change state, e.g from opened to 
   closed and vice-versa
Moving blocks:
   Be very wary of these. When you are least suspecting sections of wall can 
   crash down to the floor in any direction, blocking your way.
Sledgehammers:
   Just the thing to get to that secret place. When you use a hammer walls and
   doors can be smashed aside, but make sure you don't use them in the wrong 
   places or it will lead to an early death. You can however only use a hammer
   for 5 consecutive goes before it smashes and you are left hammerless.
Levitating spell:
   These are rare but VERY useful. A levitating spell is similar to maltesers
   making you so light you rise up into the air! Whilst you are levitating you
   can traverse water and trapdoors, but are unable to pick up objects. The
   effects of the spell can be dismissed at will, but once you have dismissed
   it you can not levitate again until you find another spell.
Teleports:
   When you walk into these they automatically teleport you to another part of
   the level.

Game Controls:
   For the controls to work CAPS LOCK needs to be turned off.

   g - pick up an object
   d - drop an object
   f - use a hammer
   s - use a levitation spell
   q - lose a chance
   p - pause the game (there is a bug in the pause system, so please do not
                      (pause the game as it mucks up the timer)
   To stop using the levitate spell, drop the spell book
   
   To move use the arrow keys

The Screen:
   The screen consists of 2 areas, the viewing window and the status bar

The viewing window:
   On the left hand side of the viewing window is the area immeadiatly  
   surrounding you
   On the right hand side of the viewing window is the map.

The status bar:
   On the left the object you are carrying is displayed.
   Next is the timer
   Then there is the amount of chances you have left.
   On the right is the special object window.
   
   The Special object window:
      When you use the sledgehammer or the levitating spell the special icon
      lights up. When the sledgehammer icon lights the number of turns left is
      displayed to the right of it. The icons darken again after the items have 
      been used

Arrows:
   In someplaces in the game arrows have been placed to give you clues of 
   where to go next.

Chances:
   You have 3 chances throughout the game. When you die you automatically lose
   a chance. If you are trapped and can proceed no further in the game you can
   press q to lose a chance and go back to the beggining with everything reset

Passwords:
   You can access level 2 by completing level 1 or by entering in the password
   "bbbb" at the password prompt

The Level Editor
   The level editor can be used to design new levels. Do not attempt to save
   any levels though as this could seriously damage the existing levels data

IMPORTANT - Labyrnth uses a seperate data file, so make sure that labyrnth.dat
            is in the same directory as labyrnth.bas

IMPORTANT - This is unfinished code. Having spent ages on this I have lost 
            motivation and so I couldn't be bothered to finish it. Because of
            this the program will inevitably contain bugs, and some of the 
            rules (see above) may not be working. However if you like what you 
            see don't hesitate to mail me and tell me, as this might motivate 
            me to finish the game. Also, if you have any ideas on new features
            which you think should be included in the game then tell me as I
            might incorporate it into the code.

This program only contains to levels, and therefore should be considered as a
playable demo.
The code of this program is badly written as it contains no sub procedures and
lots of GOTO statements. Sorry if you have a hard time following the code but
I promise future programs shall be written better, with lots of SUB's and 
REMarks to help you understand the code

This program requires Qbasic to run

Compuserve mail address:
DANIEL BOSWELL - 100624,356

**** FORTHCOMING GAMES FROM STARLIGHT ****

BATTLESHIPS:
   The classic game of battleships, featuring:
      
      - Quality VGA graphics (640 * 480 * 16)
      - "Intelligent" computer opponent
      - Friendly user interface





